1. Hi! I am [Name]. (And you?), 
Here is an informal greeting you can use when you meet new people. If the person does not tell you their name, you can say your name first. Then ask, “And you?” or “And what is your name?” 
Hi! I am Stephen. And you? 

2. Nice to meet you. 
After you learn each other’s names, it is polite to say this phrase.

A: Hi, Stephen, I am Chad.

B: Nice to meet you, Chad.

A: Nice to meet you, too.

3. Where are you from? 
Ask this question to find out which country someone is from. You answer this question with “I am from _______.”

Can you answer this question in English? Say both the question and answer aloud right now.

A: Nice to meet you, Sergio. So, where are you from?

B: I am from Spain. 

4. What do you do? 
Most adults ask each other this question when they meet. It means what do you do for a living (what is your job).

I think this question is boring, so I ask other questions. But many people will probably ask you this, so it is important to know what it means.

A: What do you do, Cathleen?

B: I work at the university as a financial specialist.

5. What do you like to do (in your free time)?
Instead of asking for someone’s job title, I prefer to ask what they enjoy doing. The responses (answers) are usually much more interesting!

A: So, Cathleen, what do you like to do in your free time? 

B: I love to read and to garden. I picked two buckets of tomatoes last week!

6. What is your phone number? 
If you want to keep in contact with someone you just met, ask this question to find out their phone number. You can replace “phone number” with “email address”  if you want to know their email address.

You might also hear people use the more casual, “Can I get your phone number?“ 

It would be great to meet up again sometime. What is your phone number?

7. Do you have Facebook? 
Many people keep in touch (contact) through Facebook. Use this question to find out if someone has a Facebook account. You might also ask, “Are you on Facebook?” 

Let’s keep in touch! Do you have Facebook?

Everyday English Phrases for Any Conversation
These eight phrases can be used in many different situations.

8. Thanks so much. 
This is a simple sentence you can use to thank someone.

To add detail, say:

Thanks so much + for + [noun] / [-ing verb].

For example:

Thanks so much for the birthday money. 

Thanks so much for driving me home. 

9. I really appreciate…
You can also use this phrase to thank someone. For example, you might say:

I really appreciate your help. 

Or you can combine this phrase with the last one:

Thanks so much for cooking dinner. I really appreciate it. 

Thanks so much. I really appreciate your cooking dinner. 

10. Excuse me. 
When you need to get through but there is someone blocking your way, say “Excuse me.”

You can also say this phrase to politely get someone’s attention. For example:

Excuse me, sir, you dropped your wallet. 

Excuse me, do you know what time it is? 

11. I am sorry. 
Use this phrase to apologize, whether for something big or small. Use “for” to give more detail. For example:

I am sorry for being so late. 

I was not expecting anyone today. I am sorry for the mess. 

You can use “really” to show you are very sorry for something:

I am really sorry I did not invite you to the party. 

In fact, I am sorry has many different uses in English and they are not always that obvious! Because of this, using native content when learning English expressions is very important to ensure you are learning them properly.

In the video below, you will explore the many different ways I am sorry can be used in English in the correct context.

For even more learning content to help you learn English, you can check out the FluentU English channel.

Play

12. What do you think? 
When you want to hear someone’s opinion on a topic, use this question.

I am not sure if we should paint the room yellow or blue. What do you think?

13. How does that sound? 
If you suggest an idea or plan, use this phrase to find out what others think.

We could have dinner at 6, and then go to a movie. How does that sound?

Let’s hire a band to play music, and Brent can photograph the event. How does that sound?

14. That sounds great. 
If you like an idea, you can respond to “How does that sound?” with this phrase. “Great” can be replaced with any synonym (similar word), such as “awesome,”  “perfect,”  “excellent”  or “fantastic.” 

A: My mom is baking cookies this afternoon. We could go to my house and eat some. How does that sound?

B: That sounds fantastic! 

15. Oh, never mind. 
Let’s say someone does not understand an idea you are trying to explain. If you have explained it over and over and want to stop, just say “oh, never mind.” You can now talk about something else!

You can also use “never mind” to mean “it does not matter” or “just forget it.” In these situations, say it with a smile and positive tone, though. When you say this phrase slowly with a falling, low tone, it can mean you are bothered or upset.

A: Are you going to the grocery store today?

B: No, I am not. But why—do you need something?

A: Oh, never mind! It is okay, I will go tomorrow.

Common Phrases about Learning English
As an English learner, you will likely want to tell others that English is not your first language. You will also need to ask native speakers to repeat phrases and words or to speak slower. The following phrases will be useful for these situations.

16. I am learning English. 
This simple phrase tells people that English is not your native language. If you are a total beginner, you can add “just started” like this: “I just started learning English.” 

My name is Sophie and I am learning English.

17. I do not understand. 
Use this phrase when you do not understand what someone means.

Sorry, I do not understand. The U.S. Electoral College seems very confusing!

18. Could you repeat that please? 
If you would like someone to say a word, question or phrase again, use this question. Since “to repeat” means “to say again,” you can also ask, “Could you say that again, please?” 

We can say “please” either at the end of the question or right after “you,” like this:

Could you please repeat that? 

Could you repeat that, please?

19. Could you please talk slower? 
Native speakers can talk very fast. Fast English is hard to understand! This is an easy way to ask someone to speak more slowly.

Note: This phrase is not grammatically correct. However, it is used often in every day (casual) speech. The grammatically correct question would be, “ Could you please talk more slowly?  “

That is because “slowly” is an adverb, so it describes verbs (like “talk”). “Slower” is a comparative adjective, which means it should be used to describe nouns (people, places or things), not verbs. (For example: My car is slower than yours.)

A: You can give us a call any weekday from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. at five five five, two five zero eight, extension three three—

B: I am sorry, could you please talk slower?

20. Thank you. That helps a lot. 
After someone starts speaking more slowly for you, thank them with this phrase.

You can use it in many other situations, too.

A: Ben, could you please make the font bigger? It is hard for me to read the words.

B: Sure! I will change it from size 10 to 16. How is this?

A: Thank you. That helps a lot.

21. What does _____ mean?
When you hear or see a new word, use this phrase to ask what it means.

A: What does “font” mean? 

B: It is the style of letters, numbers and punctuation marks when you type. A common font in the USA is called Times New Roman.

22. How do you spell that? 
English spelling can be tricky, so make sure to learn this question. You could also ask someone, “Could you spell that for me?” 

A: My name is Robbertah Handkerchief.

B: How do you spell that?

23. What do you mean? 
When you understand the words one by one, but not what they mean together, use this question. You can ask it whenever you are confused about what someone is telling you.

A: The Smiths do have a really nice house, but the grass is always greener on the other side.

B: What do you mean?

A: I mean that if we had the Smith’s house, we probably would not be happier. We always think that other people have better lives than us, but other people have problems, too.

Everyday English Phrases for Shopping
Everyone needs to go shopping, whether it is for food, clothing or household items like furniture. These phrases will help you find what you want to buy and how much it costs.

24. Can you help me? 
If you need help while you are shopping, this is a simple way to ask.

Can you help me? I cannot find what I want.

Excuse me, can you help me?

25. I am looking for…
If you cannot find what you want in a store, you can ask a salesperson to help you find it. Just add the name of what you want to buy after the phrase “I am looking for…”

Excuse me, I am looking for a winter coat. 

I am looking for snow boots. 

26. Do you have this [object] in a different color?
If you see something you like, but you do not like the color, you can ask if you can get it in a different color.

Another way to say this is “Does this come in a different color?” 

You can also add the name of the object after “this.”

I do not like this shade of red. Do you have this in a different color? 

Does this bowl come in a different color?  This will not match my kitchen.

27. I do not know my size. 
Sizes for clothing and other things differ from country to country, so you might have to look up the correct size for the country where you are shopping.

If you cannot figure out your correct size, it is perfectly fine to ask for help from the sales staff.

I do not know my size. Can you help me?

I want to buy a shirt, but I do not know my size.

28. I need this in a size ______.
This is a simple way to ask for a piece of clothing or a household item in the size you need—if you already happen to know the right size.

I need this in a size 10, please. 

This is too large. I need this in a size 5. 

29. Where can I find [item]?
Since every supermarket is set up (arranged) a little differently, we all can have trouble finding certain items.

You can ask someone at the store to help you find what you need with this simple phrase: “Where can I find…?” Just add the name of what you want after “find.”

The store clerk might answer you with a phrase like, “It is on aisle eight,” or, “It is in the Produce section, near the lettuce.”

Customer: Where can I find black olives? 

Sales clerk: They are on aisle ten, near the pickles. 

Customer: Where can I find a bag of almonds? 

Sales clerk: They are in the baking section, on aisle seven.

30. How much does this/that cost?
If you are holding something you want to buy, or it is right near you, you can say “How much does this cost?”  to find out (learn) the price.

You can also put the name of the object you want to buy after “this.”

How much does this shirt cost? 

If you can see what you want to buy, but it is not right near you, you can point to it and say, “How much does that cost?”   or “How much is that [item]?”

How much is that lamp over there?  

31. I do not need a bag. 
Let us say you just bought something small. You can easily carry it. You might tell the sales clerk or cashier that you do not need a shopping bag.

You might also say this if you have a shopping bag with you and do not need to get one from the store.

No, thank you. I do not need a bag. I can just carry it.

I do not need a bag. I brought my own with me.

32. Can someone help me carry this out? 
If you buy something really large and hard to carry, like a table or a huge order of groceries, you are going to need help.

Most stores that sell large and heavy items offer assistance (help) from a member of staff. The staff member can help you carry your purchase (what you have bought) out of the store. They might even help you place it in your vehicle.

This is too heavy for me. Can someone help me carry this out?

Can someone help me carry this out? I have eighteen bags of groceries here!

33. Can I have this delivered? 
Sometimes, you need to buy something so large—and so heavy—that there is no way you could bring it home from the store yourself.

That is when you will want to ask, “Can I have this delivered?”

This refrigerator is perfect! Can I have this delivered?

Can I have this delivered next Tuesday?

Common English Phrases for Work
Finally, here are seven English phrases you might use at a job.

34. How can I help you? 
If you work in customer service, you will use this phrase a lot. It is also a common phrase when answering the phone.

[On the phone]: Hello, this is Rebecca speaking. How can I help you?

35. I will be with you in a moment. 
When someone wants to see you, you might not be ready to talk to them. Use this phrase if you need a minute to finish something first. If a client is waiting for help, you can also use this phrase to show that their turn is next.

You can replace “moment” with “minute” and even add in the word “just”: “I will be with you in just a minute.” 

Another common phrase for this situation is “I will be right with you.” 

Good morning! I will be with you in a moment.

36. What time is our meeting? 
You can use this question’s structure to ask the time of any event: “What time is [event]?”

If you want to ask about a meeting on a certain day, add “on [day].” For example:

What time is our meeting on Thursday? 

37. Please call me (back) at…
When you want someone to call you or to call you back (to return your call), use this phrase to give your phone number.

Hi, this is Stephen from the financial office.

I am wondering if you found those missing receipts.

Please call me back at 555-5555.  Thanks!

38. Actually, I thought…
When you disagree with someone, “Actually, I thought…” will make you sound kinder and more polite than saying “No” or “You are wrong.” This phrase is useful when you have a different idea than someone else.

You can use “Actually, I…” with many different verbs: “heard,” “learned,” “am,” “can,” “cannot,” etc.

A: So Sam is coming in tonight at 8, right?

B: Actually, I thought he was not working at all this week. 

A: Oh, ok. I will have to look at the schedule again.

39. When is the deadline? 
When someone gives you a task or project to complete, you need to know how long you have to finish it.

A deadline is a date or time when something must be completely done.

You can ask “When is the deadline?” to find out when you need to be done with your task or project.

“When is it due?”  is another way to ask for this information.

A: I need you to write a sales report. 

B: When is the deadline?

       A:  I need it by next Tuesday.

 

C: Please send the customer an estimate.

D: When is it due?

C: They want it tomorrow morning, before 9.

40. I am (just) about to [verb]…
When you are going to start something very soon, you are “just about to” do something.

I am just about to send those faxes. 

I am about to go and pick up some coffee.  Do you want anything?

Common English Idioms
There are many idioms used in English that do not have literal meanings. Understanding these idioms can help prevent confusion when someone makes a joke or a comment using one of them.

If you can use some of these idioms yourself, you will sound even more like a native speaker. 

41. Break the ice
Sometimes when you are with a group of people you do not know well, it can be awkward. To “break the ice” means to ease the tension.

Often at the beginning of class, teachers use an “ice breaker,” or an activity to get students talking and help them feel more comfortable.

He made a joke to break the ice. 
42. A piece of cake
A “piece of cake” refers to a task or job that is easy to do, like eating a delicious piece of cake! You can also say it is “easy as pie.”

I expected the English test to be difficult, but it was a piece of cake. 
43. Under the weather
If you’re feeling “under the weather,” you are not your usual self and could be feeling a little sick. 

I’m feeling under the weather, so I’m not going into work today. 
44. Up for/Down for (something)
If you’re “up for” or “down for” something—usually some kind of an activity—that means you are willing to do it or want to do it. 

Hey, who’s up for beach volleyball? 

I’m down for getting pizza tonight. 

45. Play it by ear
If someone says they are “playing it by ear,” it means they are responding to circumstances as they develop without having a plan.

We don’t have to decide what to do tomorrow. We can just play it by ear.  
46. Call it a day/night
When you “call it a day” or “call it a night,” you stop whatever you’re doing, usually at least until the next day.

Okay, everybody! Let’s call it a night for now and start fresh tomorrow. 
47. Get away with (something)
If you do something that you should get in trouble for, but you don’t get in trouble, you “got away with it.”

I ate my roommate’s cookies, but she didn’t see me do it, so I got away with it.  
48. Get over something
To “get over” something means that you no longer have strong feelings about something that upset you in the past. It does not affect you in a negative way anymore. 

It took a while, but I finally got over my break-up with Chandler. 
49. Hang out 
“Hanging out” means spending time in a place. It is usually used to talk about being social (spending time with friends) or relaxing. 

Do you want to come hang out at my house this afternoon?  
50. Take (one’s) time
“Taking your time” means moving at your own pace, even if it’s slow.

Please take your time reviewing the contract. I understand this is a big decision. 
If you want to learn even more English idioms, you can find 103 idioms here organized by topic and 100 more here.

But do not feel overwhelmed! You can bookmark these posts and come back to them when you hear a phrase you do not understand. It could be a common English idiom! 

Of course, these 50 phrases are just the beginning. There are many other common English phrases you can learn as a beginner. Check out these posts for more: